# Good suggestion

I've lost 110lbs and these are my insights:

Weight loss requires you to adhere to a caloric deficit.

Adherence is what makes dieting hard.

We have 3 major components that contribute to weight: fat, muscle and water weight.

We only want to lose fat, and gain or maintain muscle. To do this, focus on eating a primary wholefood diet with an emphasis on protein and fibre. I personally aim for 30g protein and 10g of fibre per meal.

To further supplement muscle retention, find some kind of resistance training you like and do it 2~4 times a week. While weight loss can happen without going to the gym or working out, you risk losing muscle. If you gain weight after losing it, and you didn't work out you will just gain fat back, so even if you get back up to your starting weight, you will be worse off.

Focus on health and longevity. While walking 10k steps can drive a further 500 calorie deficit, you shouldn't do the steps because of that. Do it because it's just great for your physical, emotional and mental health. The same goes with eating food. Eat good food because it will support a healthy body and mind.

We all have habits that promote our current way of living, it's these habits that will prevent you from reaching your goal weight. Work on how you can unpack these habits and make them work for your goals instead of hindering them.

Don't discount sleep. Good sleep quantity AND quality helps you remain consistent. Enables you to do the hard things you don't want to do.

You don't have to exclude food groups, but know that anything ultra processed is bioengineered to be consumed in excess and digested fast. This mean you'll be hungrier more often. Be mindful when you have to eat these foods. If you have to eat ultra processed foods, try and have it with some fibre.

Most of us overeat due to lack of nutritional knowledge, use food as a coping mechanism, or both. Weight management is a skill and unless you study and learn, you will feel stuck.

Hunger and Cravings are what you have to battle with the most when losing weight, so look at what you can add, reduce or replace tom to combat these. Restricting and removing never work.

Finally, think how you can fail. The more you think of contingency when life throws you a curveball (and it will), the more control you have over what goes into your body.

This is a marathon, and getting to your goal weight is just the first part of the race. This is why the focus should be about creating sustainable habits that promote your goal weight as that is what will propel when you want to maintain it for the rest of your life.